the film begins with a dream of the main
character where her reality is submerged in water
reflecting her dual nature which will
be revealed fully throughout the story
her alarm goes off and everything returns to
normal as she wakes alisa esposito a mute woman
that lives an uneventful life starts her wake-up
routine before work by running the bath and
putting some eggs in boiling water as the timer
for the eggs ticks she takes a refreshing bath
later she packs her dinner and makes an extra
plate for her next door neighbor and close friend
alisa gives giles the food and sits with him
for a moment watching an old musical on tv
they both enjoy the dancing and when she leaves
elisa dances in the hallway on her way out
leaving the building she runs into her landlord
who also runs a cinema theater in the building
then proceeds to the bus station to catch her
ride to work alisa arrives at the super secret
government research facility for the night shift
where her co-worker and best friend zelda keeps
a spot for her in the line to punch her time card
the two women proceed to do their job as part of
the cleaning staff until they reach a special
secret lab housing a pool fleming the chief of
security introduces dr hof steedler as the main
scientist responsible for overseeing the new
asset that is to arrive in that lab as fleming
sets up the importance of the asset it arrives
in a pressure tank accompanied by a government
agent strickland while the men from the facility
coordinate with him alisa has a little look-see in
the tank after she hears the creature howling from
inside it reacts to her touch on the tank alarming
hofstealer of their presence and prompting him
to get them out of a lab because the creature had
become agitated the next day alisa and giles go to
his favorite restaurant to get key lime pie giles
has a little chat with the bartender thinking that
he might have a chance with him in the future
in the next shot he and elisa are eating the pie
at his place making it apparent that the desert
is awful and that he only goes to that shop for
the guy the following night alisa and zelda are
cleaning the washroom when strickland comes in
he washes his hands before he pees then does
his business while the women are still there
alisa wants to move the cattle prod he has left
on the washroom counter but he tells her not to
touch it explaining how powerful and dangerous it
is then he introduces himself and explains why he
doesn't wash his hands after going something that
should tell them a lot about his character before
he leaves strickland kindly greets the women
making it seem like he's taken a little bit of a
liking to elisa zelda hates him already later the
two are taking out the garbage from the hallways
when they hear the door from the lab where the
asset was taken open then see strickland come
out of their bleeding the other scientists and
a few mps run over to help him and contain the
asset while zelda pulls elisa away from the
scene moments later as they're eating dinner
and talking about what they just witnessed fleming
comes over to get them so they can clean the lab
when they get there they find the lab in an awful
bloody state but they still continue to mop it up
suddenly lisa finds strickland's bit off fingers
and sticks them in a paper bag while zelda goes to
get fleming alisa finally gets a chance to see and
meet the amphibian man they're keeping in there
zelda comes back with fleming and alisa
gives him the paper bag with the body parts
the following morning alisa tells
giles everything about what happened
but he doesn't believe her about the creature
he shows her the latest ad he had painted
which he needs to take into his former boss
and hopefully get paid or his old job back
when giles meets with the boss he tells him that
he needs to repaint some of the details for the
client's instructions he also tells giles
that he'll see what he can do about his job
that night alisa goes to work and heads
immediately to the lab to see the creature again
she hears him in the pool and figures out a way to
get him to come out elisa cracks an egg and shows
up above the water then she lures him over and
he slowly comes out of the water to take the egg
when she tries handing it over the amphibian
man freaks out so she puts it down gesturing the
word in sign language he calms and takes the egg
abruptly jumping back into the water zelda catches
elisa coming out of the lab and tells her that
strickland wants to see them both in his office
in the next shot the women are already there for
a long and awkward conversation with strickland
who wants to know even more about them and
especially alisa he reads in her file that
she was left orphaned as a baby and zelda tells
him that alisa was found by the river in the water
strickland wants to thank her for finding his
fingers prompting her to return his wedding
band back to him as he explains the surgery
in which the doctor stitched his fingers back
he realizes that she's mute but not deaf so he
asks if the scars on her neck are the reason
she can't talk alisa doesn't think so because she
wasn't able to speak since she was a child before
they leave strickland tells them to keep away from
the creature in the lab which he took from south
america and dragged back to the us he cautions
them that while the creature may look similar
to a human that it's still a monster the women
leave when strickland gets a phone call from a
general informing him that he will be visiting the
facility soon meanwhile the creature reminisces
over elisa repeating the sign for an egg that
following night alisa waits for the scientists
to leave the lab then takes out a record player
from her card and places it next to the pool
she plays music for the amphibian man and serves
him a single egg while she also takes a bite from
her sandwich he takes the egg without surfacing so
she pauses the music to make him come out and join
her surely enough the amphibian man pokes his
head out grunting and alisa unpauses the record
she teaches him the sign for music and he learns
it fast enjoying the music and their time together
their dates continue in the following
nights coupled with boiling eggs and music
then eventually graduating to dancing hofstedler
walks in on them one night when he goes to bring
the creature it's dinner but he doesn't interrupt
them he realizes that he has come upon something
significant about the asset so he contacts his
real bosses and meets with them at a separate
location after sharing the password with the
security he's taken to another location to
meet with the main soviet agent hofstedler gives
him all his notes on the creature in a blueprint
of the lab so they can plan its extraction he's
adamant about going forward with the extraction
sooner because he thinks that the creature is an
intelligent being able to communicate the agent
promises to pass that along to their superiors
alisa goes back to work taking care of the laundry
for the facility where she learns how she can
disable the security camera if she needed to
later she covertly enters the lab and finds
the creature chained up and badly wounded
alisa wants to help him but here's strickland
coming back and promptly hides in the lab
the amphibian man screeches as
strickland comes back inside
strickland taunts him and tortures him with a
cattle prod remorselessly disturbing elisa as well
the general arrives at the lab and is immediately
stunned by the size and look of the creature
strickland tells him that the native tribes in the
amazon where he found it worship the amphibian man
like a god both strickland and the general think
that he doesn't look like much of a god when hof
stealer checks him and asks why he's bleeding the
scientist tells the general that the creature can
alternate between two entirely separate breathing
mechanisms making him a very special and unique
living organism that can help future scientific
progress the general and strickland make fun
of both him and the creature when hofsteadler
notices elisa in the lab he also realizes that
the amphibian man is having difficulty breathing
since he's been out of the water for too long
and pleads with strickland to get him back in
strickland however continues with his presentation
telling the general that they need to vivisect the
creature if they really want to know more about it
hofstedler disagrees and when the creature passes
out he orders the men to take him to the pressure
tank then leaves with strickland and the general
to discuss the next steps concerning the asset
alisa hears it all and frantically follows them
back to strickland's office where she learns that
the creature will be killed and dissected later
elisa tries to acquire giles's help to get the
creature out of the facility however he doesn't
want to have anything to do with it fearing that
they'll be breaking the law alisa finally admits
to her love for the amphibian man who she thinks
sees her the way no one has seen her before as a
person with no deficiencies even after her speech
giles isn't convinced saying that the creature
isn't even human so he leaves the apartment in a
hurry alisa storms after him signing that if they
don't help him they don't won't be human anymore
giles ignores her plea again in the next shot
he meets with his boss who tells him that the
corrections aren't even necessary because the
client went in another direction and says that he
will never be hired back later charles goes back
to the restaurant to see his bae but unfortunately
the moment he makes a move on him he learns that
not only is the man not gay but also a massive
homophobe even worse as an african-american
couple walks into the restaurant the man is
revealed to be a massive racist too completely
disappointing giles on all possible levels
feeling what it looks like to be treated like
an animal on his own skin giles finally grows
a conscience and goes to alisa to tell her that he
will help her after all meanwhile ha steeler meets
his soviet contacts again to inform them that
the creature will be vivisected his boss tells
him that he has two options either to delay the
procedure which is impossible or use a tool to cut
the power in the facility giving him enough time
to kill the creature himself the scientist hates
the alternatives because his primary obligation is
to science and not any country's political motives
however his boss tells him he has no other choice
simultaneously strickland buys an expensive car
in a color he hates just because the man at
the shop tells him it's the cool new thing
that night while hof steedler takes care of the
amphibian man alisa stakes out the lab and its
exits to figure out a way to get the creature
out of there and zelda catches a glimpse of her
planning something giles prepares his van to make
it look like one of the laundry vans that do the
pickups from the facility later he and elisa go
over the plan which is to use fake documents to
get to the lab by 5am while she takes care of the
cameras and gets the creature out in a laundry
cart meanwhile hoss steeler prepares the poison
to kill the creature clearly unhappy about it
elisa goes back to the staff locker room just
as everybody gets ready to leave but she stays
behind and gets back to the loading dock to move
the camera as she's doing that hof steedler makes
his final plea to strickland not to kill the
amphibian man while they argue he sees that elise
is moving the cameras on the monitor and when he
realizes that strickland won't budge he decides
to help her instead alisa is already preparing the
laundry cart for the creature as zelda waits for
her to come by the elevators then stays back and
goes searching for her when she doesn't show alisa
goes to the lab with hof steeler already waiting
for her there she takes the amphibian man out of
the water and hofstedler approaches giving her the
keys to the chains he tells elisa what she needs
to do to keep the creature comfortable and gives
her a special mixture to put in his water to keep
him alive he also tells her that he'll disable
the power which will give her five minutes then
he'll meet her at the loading dock while elisa is
rolling the creature out of the lab jaws drives
over there and hofstedler goes to find the main
power fuse giles arrives at the loading dock but
is stopped by the mp at the gate while hofstedler
sets the timer on the gadget to cut the power
in a fast sequence of events alisa brings the
creature out and zelda stops her while strickland
sees the van on the security camera from the gate
suspecting that something is wrong and calling the
mp he runs over there as the mp points a gun at
giles to step out of the vehicle when suddenly
the power goes out hofstedler hurries lisa to
get the creature to the loading dock and zelda
finally decides to help then he kills the mp
so giles can have a clear path to get to alisa
the four of them get the amphibian man into the
van and giles drives off leaving zelda and haas
dealer behind giles crashes into strickland's
car because he's mesmerized by the creature's
beauty giving the security enough time to catch
up to them and to start shooting fortunately the
escape van makes it out of the facility and
strickland is pissed later alisa and giles
get the creature comfortably into her bathtub so
he can start breathing they both rejoice because
their plan worked as strickland investigates the
chain of events that allow the creature to escape
the following morning alisa forges a new plan on
how to set the amphibian man back into the ocean
she'll have to wait for the october reigns to
come and release him in the canal so she writes
it down in her calendar later alisa has a nice
moment with a creature showing their growing bond
that night they all go back to work pretending
it's business as usual strickland questions alisa
and zelda then realizes that whoever planned the
escape could not have been a simple member of the
cleaning staff and dismisses them convinced that
the creature was grabbed by highly trained agents
meanwhile giles takes care of the amphibian
man in his apartment but when he falls asleep
the creature hears the tv and leaves the
bathroom the amphibian man sees one of giles cats
then hunts and eats her getting caught by giles
in the act giles yells at him to stop scaring
the creature terribly he reacts by attacking
giles as well and running out of the building
before alisa and zelda leave work hofstealer
gives them another care package for the creature
alisa tells him about her plan to release him and
calls him a good man suddenly she gets a phone
call from giles that the creature ran away so she
gets back to the apartments as fast as she can
alisa finds the amphibian man in the downstairs
cinema drawn there by the sounds of the films
puzzled by what he's seeing they have a touching
moment together and then come back to tend to
giles the creature has already learned that
the cats are off the menu and he tries to make
it right with giles for eating one of them he
places his hand on giles's head and his wound
blowing magnificently signifying that something
magical is happening meanwhile strickland calls
hof steedler to his office questioning him because
he suspects his involvement alisa and the creature
continue to bond and fall in love one morning
alisa accepts his advances and walks into the
bathroom stripping her clothes suggesting they
will get intimate together the next night at work
zelda catches her smiling and figures out she had
slept with the amphibian man so elisa explains how
it all worked zelda is shocked and says never
trust a man even when he looks flat down there
hofstedler gets a visit from his soviet comrades
who questioned him about the amphibian man as well
falsely thinking that he went ahead and killed
it he can tell that they're a little suspicious
as well and gets ready to defend himself but
they leave telling him that they'll contact him
when they have his extraction plan as time goes on
alisa and the amphibian man continue their loving
affair and she almost floods the entire building
creating their own little aquarium in her bathroom
giles catches them in the act stopping the flood
from getting worse but he relays no judgment
moreover he might be starting to believe the
creature is really a god considering it healed
both his wound and made his hair grow back with a
simple touch hofstedler finally gets the call from
his comrades to meet them for his extraction and
lisa checks the docs because the reins had started
when she comes back home she realizes that
the creature is getting sick being out of
the water for so long meanwhile strickland
gets a visit from the general who pushes him
even more to find the creature faster informing
him that if he doesn't find it he will lose his
job with the government alisa realizes that the
date has come to release the creature back in the
ocean and during their meal together she finds a
way to express her love for him later she tells
zelda what's happening and when she checks on the
creature zelda says that she must release him that
night before zelda leaves she calls hofstedler to
ask him what to do but unfortunately he's already
at the door and misses the call since strickland
is on to hofstetler he follows him when he leaves
his apartment to go to the secret meeting place ha
steedler isn't getting extracted though when his
compatriots arrive at the meeting place they
shoot him down but are killed by strickland
before they can finish him strickland tortures the
barely living scientist for information about the
creature and learns that it was the cleaning staff
who managed to fool him and release the creature
upon learning that strickland goes to
zelda's house to question her about it
but finds out the truth from her husband since
she wasn't willing to give up her friend as soon
as he leaves zelda calls elisa to tell her that
he's on his way alisa and giles make it to the
canals before strickland gets to her apartment and
are ready to say goodbye to the creature forever
unfortunately strickland sees the date that elisa
has written in her calendar and follows them there
so before the amphibian man can jump in
the water he shoots both him and elisa
giles knocks him over stopping him from shooting
further and giving the creature enough time to
heal his own wounds the amphibian man gets up
and promptly confronts strickland who shockingly
says that the creature is a god before the
amphibian man slashes strickland's neck open
as strickland is dying and zelda arrives at the
dock with the police the creature takes elisa in
his hands and jumps in the water zelda and giles
watch them go silently saying their farewells
the creature heals elisa in the water and helps
her start breathing through the gills on her neck
which were never scars they live happily
ever after make sure to subscribe and turn
on notifications so you can watch more
videos like this thanks for watching